Section 0 (Opening):
Hello everyone. Chess and programming has always been my hobby, so I decided to try out chess programming for our W@W project. Together with, we built an AI chess engine. This is a video about, made with manim.

Section 1 (Introduction to chess):
This is chess, a 2-player board game where the goal is to checkmate the opponent's king. Different pieces can move in different ways, which adds to the complexity of the game.

Despite the simplicity of the rules, chess strategies can be complex, making it a good benchmark for testing the capabilities of computers.

A chess engine is a computer program that analyses a position to find the best possible move at a position to maximise its chances of winning.

Section 2 (Introduction to chess engines):
There are 2 main types of chess engines.
Firstly, there are traditional chess engines. The current best is known as Stockfish. It  that search a tree of possible board positions, along with other algorithms, in order to find the best outcome
However, these algorithms can be slow due to the large number of positions that need to be searched.
In recent years, neural networks, a computational model used in machine learning, has started to be applied to chess engines, such as AlphaZero
However, neural networks require time and compute power to train and be effective
For example, AlphaZero uses self-play, where the AI plays against itself to improve, which can only be done feasibly with specialised commercial hardware
Neural networks use a neural network architecture known as a transformer, which is also used in Large Language Models such as ChatGPT
For more information about neural networks, we highly recommend the series on neural networks by 3Blue1Brown on YouTube

Section 3 (Our Model):
Due to time and hardware constraints, we are unable to create a model large enough for self-play to be effective
Therefore, we decided to use distillation, where we use a preexisting engine to generate data for our model to train on
For our model, we used stockfish to generate data
Here is the performance of our data in terms of loss or "error", which measures how much our model fails
As you can see, there is a downward trend as it is trained on more data
Here is the performance of our data in terms of Lichess puzzle accuracy, separated by puzzle rating
Lichess is a popular chess website that provides chess puzzles that can also be used to benchmark chess engines
As you can see by the data, our engine gets 50% accuracy at around {rating} rating, which means it is around {level}

Section 4 (Demonstration):
Here is a demonstration of our model against a human player
{commentary}

Section 5 (Ending):
Thank you for watching!
This project would not have been possible without 3Blue1Brown's YouTube series, etc...